docs: add ratify v2 architecture design proposal (#1962)
ratify-project/ratify: docs/design/Ratify v2 Architecture Proposal.md

3. Reduce the dependencies of Ratify so that it is easier to maintain and upgrade.
4. Make it easier for contributors to develop and test new features.

## Current Architecture of Ratify v1
![img](../img/architecture/ratify-v1.png)

### Limitations
1. Ratify only supports CLI and K8s scenarios. But actually current Ratify is only well implemented/designed for K8s scenarios. There are some feature gaps between CLI and K8s implementations. To support more scenarios, like containerd plugins or docker plugins, or just a library for downstream services, we need to make Ratify to be more extensible.
2. Ratify was designed to validate security metadata of any given artifacts. But right now Ratify is mainly focusing on the K8s scenarios with images being verified.
3. The plugin framework was designed to separate built-in and external plugins. Built-in plugins run in the same process of Ratify while each external plugin would be executed in a new subprocess. Therefore, external plugins cannot share the in-momory cache with the main process, which may result to performance degradation, data inconsistency, race condition and security vulnerabilties.

> 4. The built-in plugins and authentication for different cloud providers are part of the main Ratify repository, which introduces a significant number of dependencies. This issue will become even more pronounced as additional cloud provider and new plugin implementation are added in the future.

Reviewer: Hi @binbin-li , after the refactoring, will auth providers be in Ratify core, have we called this out already?

Author: Ratify core will just define the Store interface without its implementation. The auth provider will belong to oras implementation repo.

Author: Actually my plan is to have ratify-go define `ReferrerStore` and `AuthProvider` interfaces. The authProvider implementation will reside in the entrypoint repos because KMP/Verifier will also need similar authProvider.

3. **System Input (config/CRD)**: The system input defines configurations of the Ratify application. It can be a configuration file or a custom resource definition (CRD) in Kubernetes. The system input can be configured during startup or runtime.
4. **Driver/Entrypoint**: The driver/entrypoint will be responsible for handling user input and system input, and invoking the core logic to validate the security metadata of the artifacts. It will also be responsible for invoking the output render to render the validation results. It will have different implementations in terms of the user scenario.
5. **Output Render**: The output render will be responsible for rendering the validation results.
6. **Middlewares**: The middleware consists of `Driver/Entrypoint` and `Output Render`. Each user scenario will have its own middleware implementation.
7. **Customized App**: The customized app can be any application behaves in a similar was as the middleware. It will be responsible for handling its own input and invoking the core logic to validate the security metadata of the artifacts and rendering its own output.

### Deisgn Details

> Below is a more detailed design of the proposed architecture of Ratify v2. Note that text in red indicates a repository under `ratify-project` organization.

Reviewer: the v2 diagram doesn't show the cache component. Will all plugins share the oras cache in v2?

Author: yes, the new diagram focuses on the core and plugins. Oras cache will reside in the oras implementation. And since all plugins will run in the host process as library, the oras cache is also in the host process which can be safely shared by verifiers. I'll add it to the doc as well.

}

/*----------------------------------------------------------*/
// oras store
type Store struct{}

func (s *Store) ListReferrers() string {
	fmt.Println("oras")
	return "oras"
}

func init() {
	core.RegisterStore("oras", &Store{})
}

/*----------------------------------------------------------*/
// Ratify main application
package main

import (
	"github.com/binbin-li/ratify-test/core"
)

func main() {
	manager := core.NewExecutor()
	manager.Verify()
}
```
```Dockerfile
# Dockerfile
# Use the official Golang image as the base image
FROM golang:1.21-alpine

# Set the working directory inside the container
WORKDIR /app

# Copy the Go modules files
COPY go.mod ./

# Download the Go modules
# RUN go mod download

# Copy the source code
COPY . .

# Add appropriate verifier/store implementation
RUN sed -i '2i\import _ "github.com/binbin-li/ratify-test/cosign"' main.go && \
    sed -i '2i\import _ "github.com/binbin-li/ratify-test/notation"' main.go && \
    sed -i '2i\import _ "github.com/binbin-li/ratify-test/oras"' main.go

RUN go mod tidy

# Build the Go application
RUN go build -o main .

# Command to run the executable
CMD ["./main"]
```

> In the above example, the only dependency of Ratify repo is the Ratify core library. And users could select appropriate interface implementations based on need in the Dockerfile.

Reviewer: just clarify, we will have docker files for each entry point ( cli , k8s)?

Author: Good question!
1. For different repos, like ratify-cli, ratify, they will different scripts and Dockerfile for each. 
2. For ratify repo, users might have different scenarios to integrate different plugins. I plan to have one Dockerfile along with a script so that users can just pass in different plugin paths to it instead of writing different Dockerfiles.
3. And ratify repo should also ship one or a few images with default verifiers that cover common user scenarios.

## Goals
The goal of this proposal aligns with the goal in the previous discussion, specifically:
1. Refactor the code to make it more modular and maintainable.
2. Improve the performance of Ratify by optimizing the core components and making it easier to scale.
3. Reduce the dependencies of Ratify so that it is easier to maintain and upgrade.
4. Make it easier for contributors to develop and test new features.

## Current Architecture of Ratify v1
![img](../img/architecture/ratify-v1.png)

### Limitations
1. Ratify only supports CLI and K8s scenarios. But actually current Ratify is only well implemented/designed for K8s scenarios. There are some feature gaps between CLI and K8s implementations. To support more scenarios, like containerd plugins or docker plugins, or just a library for downstream services, we need to make Ratify to be more extensible.
2. Ratify was designed to validate security metadata of any given artifacts. But right now Ratify is mainly focusing on the K8s scenarios with images being verified.

> 3. The plugin framework was designed to separate built-in and external plugins. Built-in plugins run in the same process of Ratify while each external plugin would be executed in a new subprocess. Therefore, external plugins cannot share the in-momory cache with the main process, which may result to performance degradation, data inconsistency, race condition and security vulnerabilties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The plugin framework was designed to separate built-in and external plugins. Built-in plugins run in the same process of Ratify while each external plugin would be executed in a new subprocess. Therefore, external plugins cannot share the in-memory cache with the main process, which may result to performance degradation, data inconsistency, race condition and security vulnerabilities.
```

Reviewer 2: Nit: you may scan and check typos in this design proposal
